  # Writeup For MTA Data Analysis
  
  WomenTechWomenYes (WTWY) would like to increase attendance to their annual summer gala. The objective of the MTA data analysis is to determine an optimal way to analyze the data to find popular subway stations in New York City (NYC). The goal is to provide these subway locations to the WTWY street teams to canvas for increased signatures. The NYC MTA data was collected and filtered excluding specific days of the weeks and times of day. The intent of this filtering was to narrow down the results for the client to make more meaningful conclusions. The results showed that Grand Central Station had the highest average ridership per week. Additionally, there was not a significant variance in ridership by day of the week, but Wednesday was the most popular day to travel. Finally, it was shown that ridership in the NYC area increased during periods of warmer weather. WTWY street teams should focus their efforts at the suggested station provided. These stations should be canvased on Wednesday, during working hours and warm weather periods. 
  
  The NYC MTA data analysis was designed to find the highest average ridership per station with some exclusions to narrow down the results. It was assumed that these street teams would not be working weekends, therefore readings from Saturdays and Sundays were removed from the dataset. Also, WTWY’s target audience was assumed to be of the working class. The timeseries of midnight and 4:00am were removed from the dataset to accommodate this assumption. Additionally, a correlation between average temperature and subway ridership was explored to determine if average temperature could be a useful metric for the street teams.
  
  The subway turnstile data was collected from the MTA website over a five month period (April 2021 - August 2021). The MTA data consisted of individual turnstile readings, recording input every four hours in odometer fashion. Weather data was brought in from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's (NOAA) website. The weather data was collected at Central Park and came in the form of maximum and minimum temperatures per day. 
  
  The MTA data did not contain any columns that were unique. The first step taken was to create new columns that were concatenated from existing columns to create unique identifiers. Once the data was properly sorted, the entries and exits columns were adjusted to produce net entries and net exits. This step was taken to change the odometer reading style of the turnstiles to show a reading of net change over a specific time period. The data was grouped by station, linename, and day of the week to find the average ridership for each station by day of the week. This grouped data is the basis for many of the conclusions drawn.  
  
  Additionally, average temperature per day over the five months of analysis was found from the temperature data. Rather than relating this temperature data to specific turnstiles, the entire MTA dataset was grouped by date to get a total number of net entries and exits into subway stations across the NYC area. The two datasets were then joined on the common column date. Average temperatures were then given a category based on where the average temperature fell within a predetermined temperature range. The combined data was then grouped by the newly defined category and the average ridership was found for each temperature range.
  
  An SQL database was the backbone of this analysis. After construction of the database, initial querying and investigations were done using SQLite3 and the DB Browser. Once the database was becoming more understood, the database was brought into Python using SQLAlchemy. Pandas was used to instantiate a dataframe from the database. After more data analysis was carried out using Pandas, Matplotlib was used to visualize the results. Additionally, Geopy and Folium were used to create an interactive map of the station locations within NYC.
  
  From the analysis of the NYC subway MTA turnstile data, it can be shown that certain stations receive more riders on a daily basis than others. These stations include but are not limited to Grand Central Station, Herald Square, and Union Square. The analysis of the weather data has shown that there are more subway riders during periods where the average temperature is higher. The WTWY street teams are recommended to canvas the five most popular stations provided. These stations should be visited on Wednesdays, between the hours of 4:00am and 8:00pm on warm weather days.
