### Project Proposal: NYC MTA Turnstile Data Analysis

A client has a need to optimize the location of solicitors at subway station entrances. The purpose of this analysis is to determine which subway stations in NYC have the highest amount of foot traffic over a given period of time. Theoretically, placing solicitors at the stations with the highest foot traffic will yield a greater number of signatures. The data used for this analysis will be the [MTA turnstile data](http://web.mta.info/developers/turnstile.html). The MTA data will be scrapped from the MTA website over a five month period, from August backwards. This data is collected at every turnstile in NYC in four hour increments. After one week of collection the data is uploaded to the MTA website. Expected features of this data include a labeling system for each turnstile that ties the turnstile to a station location, a system for counting the number of passengers entering and exiting through said turnstile, and date and time information denoting when the data was collected. The target of this model is to summarize the total number of people entering and exiting at each station over a five month period. This will require aggregations, because each station will comprise many turnstiles and the time series that the data is in will need to be consolidated. Along with aggregation, the data will need to be given a unique identifier, sorted, and grouped to better handle the large dataset. After data manipulation is completed, graphs will be created as a visual representation of the analysis results. The use of additional tools is not out of the scope of this project and will be used when deemed necessary. 

